feat: expose Monaco and Dynamic Page as Web Components (#3579)
kyma-project/busola: docs/custom-extensions/busola-web-components.md

# Custom Busola Web Components

> Busola provides a suite of custom web womponents to enhance your application's functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Busola provides a suite of custom web components to enhance your application's functionality.
```

> Busola provides a suite of custom Web Components to enhance your application's functionality. These components come with utility functions to dynamically update their properties, attributes, and slots after initialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Busola provides a suite of custom web components to enhance your application's functionality. These components come with utility functions to dynamically update their properties, attributes, and slots after initialization.
```

## Utility Functions

> All custom Web Components expose methods to dynamically update their properties, attributes, and slots after initialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All custom web components expose methods to dynamically update their properties, attributes, and slots after initialization.
```

> All custom Web Components expose methods to dynamically update their properties, attributes, and slots after initialization.

Reviewer: This sentence looks almost identical to the previous one. I suggest removing the one from the Custom Busola Web Components section.

> String and boolean properties can be passed as standard HTML attributes. For example:

Reviewer: If it's a user who passes these properties, I suggest the following change:
```suggestion
You can pass the string and boolean properties as standard HTML attributes. For example:
```

```HTML
<monaco-editor read-only="true"></monaco-editor>
```

> Functions, objects, and arrays can be passed using the `setProp` function. For example:

Reviewer: As in my previous comment
```suggestion
You can pass functions, objects, and arrays using the `setProp` function. For example:
```

```JS
const editor = document.querySelector('monaco-editor');
editor.setProp('on-change', (value) => console.log('New content:', value));
```

> HTML elements can be passed using the `setSlot` attribute. For example:

Reviewer: As in my previous comment
```suggestion
You can pass HTML elements using the `setSlot` attribute. For example:
```

```JS
const dynamicPage = document.querySelector('dynamic-page-component');
const customFooter = document.createElement('div');
customFooter.textContent = 'Custom Footer Content';
dynamicPage.setSlot('footer', customFooter);
```

## Custom Web Components

- [Monaco Editor](#monaco-editor)
- [Dynamic Page](#dynamic-page)

### Monaco Editor

> The `Monaco Editor` component is a versatile code editor. It provides features such as syntax highlighting and autocompletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Monaco Editor component is a versatile code editor. It provides features such as syntax highlighting and autocompletion.
```

> The `Monaco Editor` web component supports the following attributes and properties. Attributes correspond to camel-cased React props when accessed programmatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It supports the following attributes and properties. Attributes correspond to camel-cased React props when accessed programmatically.
```

| Parameter                         | Required | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                                                               |
| --------------------------------- | -------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **value**                         | No       | string   | The initial code content displayed in the editor. Defaults to an empty string.                                                                                                            |
| **placeholder**                   | No       | string   | Specifies a short hint about the input field value.                                                                                                                                       |

> | **language**                      | No       | string   | Specifies the programming language of the editor's content (e.g., `javascript`, `json`). Defaults to `javascript`.                                                                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **language**                      | No       | string   | Specifies the programming language of the editor's content (for example, `javascript`, `json`). Defaults to `javascript`.                                                                        |
```

> | **height**                        | No       | string   | Specifies the height of the component. Must include the unit (e.g., `100px`, `50vh`).                                                                                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **height**                        | No       | string   | Specifies the height of the component. Must include the unit (for example, `100px`, `50vh`).                                                                                                     |
```

| **on-mount**                      | No       | function | Callback function triggered when the editor mounts.                                                                                                                                       |
| **on-blur**                       | No       | function | Callback function triggered when the editor loses focus.                                                                                                                                  |
| **on-focus**                      | No       | function | Callback function triggered when the editor gains focus.                                                                                                                                  |
| **update-value-on-parent-change** | No       | boolean  | Updates the editor content if the parent component changes its `value` prop.                                                                                                              |

> | **options**                       | No       | object   | Custom options for configuring the Monaco Editor. Refer to the Monaco Editor API for available options.                                                                                   |

Reviewer: Can we add a link to the Monaco Editor API docs? Is it this one - https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/docs.html ?

| **error**                         | No       | string   | Displays an error message in the editor when provided. If an error is displayed, it indicates that the current input is invalid, but the previous valid input will be used by the editor. |

See the following example:

```HTML
<monaco-editor
    value="console.log('Hello!')"
    language="javascript"
    height="200px"
    placeholder="Write some code..."
  ></monaco-editor>
```

<img src="./assets/MonacoEditor.png" alt="Example of a Monaco Editor" width="70%" style="border: 1px solid #D2D5D9">

### Dynamic Page

> The `Dynamic Page` web component is used to display content on the page and consisting of a title, header, a content area, an optional inline edit form and floating footer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Dynamic Page web component displays content on the page, consisting of a title, a header, a content area, an optional inline edit form, and a floating footer.
```

> The `Dynamic Page` supports the following attributes and properties. Attributes correspond to camel-cased React props when accessed programmatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It supports the following attributes and properties. Attributes correspond to camel-cased React props when accessed programmatically.
```

| Parameter                      | Required | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ------------------------------ | -------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **title**                      | No       | string   | The title of the page displayed in the header.                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **title**                      | No       | string   | The page title displayed in the header.                                                                                                                                                  |
```

| **content**                    | No       | node     | Content displayed in the main section of the page.                                                                                                                                              |
| **footer**                     | No       | node     | Content displayed in the footer section.                                                                                                                                                        |
| **layout-number**              | No       | string   | Layout identifier for column management.                                                                                                                                                        |
| **layout-close-url**           | No       | string   | URL to navigate to when the column layout is closed.                                                                                                                                            |

> | **inline-edit-form**           | No       | function | A function defining the inline edit form. It receives the `stickyHeaderHeight` as an argument and is expected to return a HTML element.                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **inline-edit-form**           | No       | function | A function defining the inline edit form. It receives `stickyHeaderHeight` as an argument and is expected to return an HTML element.                                                         |
```

> | **show-yaml-tab**              | No       | boolean  | Specifies whether to show a YAML editing tab.                                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: Can you add what it defaults to?

> | **protected-resource**         | No       | boolean  | Indicates whether the resource is protected.                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: Can you add what it defaults to?

| **protected-resource-warning** | No       | node     | Warning message for protected resources.                                                                                                                                                        |
| **class-name**                 | No       | string   | Additional class names for the component, used for custom styling.                                                                                                                              |

> | **custom-action-if-form-open** | No       | function | Specifies a custom action triggered when user tries to navigate out of the Edit form tab. It recieves four arguments: `isResourceEdited`, `setIsResourceEdited`, `isFormOpen`, `setIsFormOpen`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **custom-action-if-form-open** | No       | function | Specifies a custom action triggered when a user tries to navigate out of the Edit form tab. It receives four arguments: `isResourceEdited`, `setIsResourceEdited`, `isFormOpen`, `setIsFormOpen`. |
```

#### `custom-action-if-form-open`

> The `custom-action-if-form-open` prop in the `Dynamic Page` component is a customizable callback function designed to handle specific actions when a form is open. It recieves four arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `custom-action-if-form-open` prop in the Dynamic Page component is a customizable callback function designed to handle specific actions when a form is open. It receives four arguments:
```

| Argument                | Type     | Description                                                                                                                       |
| ----------------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **isResourceEdited**    | object   | Indicates if the current resource has been edited. The object has the structure: { isEdited: boolean; discardAction?: Function; } |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **isResourceEdited**    | object   | Indicates if the current resource has been edited. The object has the structure: `{ isEdited: boolean; discardAction?: Function; }` |
```

| **setIsResourceEdited** | function | A state setter function to update the `isResourceEdited` state.                                                                   |

> | **isFormOpen**          | object   | Tracks the status of the inline edit form. The object has the structure: { formOpen: boolean; leavingForm: boolean; }             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **isFormOpen**          | object   | Tracks the status of the inline edit form. The object has the structure: `{ formOpen: boolean; leavingForm: boolean; }`            |
```
